project_README.md, before:

---
title: "ng_readme"
author: "Nathan"
date: "1/30/2023"
output: html_document
---

*Background Rough Draft* 
- Each year, plumes of Saharan dust travel across the Atlantic via easterly trade winds. These plumes are then deposited in the surface waters of the mid-Atlantic, Caribbean, and Gulf of Mexico. These dust aerosols harbor a wide range of fungi, bacteria, virus-like-particles, minerals, and nutrients (NO3, Fe, PO4). Addition of these nutrients to otherwise oligotrophic settings can result in large and rapid blooms of potentially harmful microbes, presenting a danger to both marine and human health. 

- Bacteria belonging to the genus Vibrio are marine opportunistic heterotrophs that are ubiquitous in nature and are among the first to respond to the influx of nutrients. Species of Vibrio are known to cause a variety of diseases in humans ranging from  cholera (V. cholerae), to ear and wound infections (V. alginolyticus), and in some extreme cases necrotizing fasciitis and septicemia (V. vulnificus). Vibrio have also been shown to impact marine health, causing coral bleaching (V. coralliiyticus, V. shiloi, V. alginolyticus), and shellfish and fish mortality (V. harveyi, V. parahaemolyticus, V. vulnificus). Vibrio population dynamics are primarily driven by temperature and salinity, with prime conditions between 25-30°C and salinities ranging from 20-35. While there is evidence of these blooms occurring in low-nutrient settings like the Florida Keys, less is known regarding microbial response to dust input in areas with *higher baseline nutrients*.

*Question:* 
- How do Saharan dust events influence Vibrio populations in high nutrient coastal waters?

*Data Description* 
- Data was collected at 3 sites in Corpus Christi, TX before, during, and after a Saharan dust event (starting on July 7th and ending on July 19th, 2022). Sites represent a gradient in background nutrient levels (Blind Oso and Canals are high, the Gulf is low). Water samples were collected for inorganic nutrients, dissolved and particulate organic matter, and microbial analysis. Vertical profiles of salinity, temperature, pH, and dissolved oxygen were obtained using a YSI ProPlus sonde.

- Variables will include `Temperature (°C)`, `Salinity`, `Nitrate`, `Phosphate`, `Copies/mL`  produced using quantitative PCR. Provides gene copies of Vibrio bacteria (I am hoping to also get data about specific species), and `Dust Concentration (AOT)` from the naval research laboratory satellite data.

*What I am looking for* 
- I expect to see a more dramatic growth response in the Gulf (low nutrient), whereas the higher nutrient sites may exhibit a dampened growth response since they already have high baseline nutrient levels. If we still see a growth response despite already having supportive background nutrient levels at these sites, this may suggest that there are other constituents in the dust that can elicit a growth response. Nutrients, dust input, salinity, and temperature will be the primary factors of interest.

*How I will analyze it* 
- Look at Vibrio growth over time series (estimated from qPCR) 
- Examine relationships between dust input and Vibrio growth 
- Examine influence of site-specific environmental parameters (Temperature, Salinity, Nutrients) on growth response 
- Run linear models on factors like: dust x growth and nutrients x growth 
- NMDS to see which parameters have the strongest influence on growth

Commit message:

Proj Pt 2
- Cut out all TX Dust work- Made new Repo for that. 
- Annotated everything

project_README.md, after:

---
title: "ng_readme"
author: "Nathan"
date: "1/30/2023"
output: html_document
---

This project utilizes three data sets that examine different parameters across a daily time series: (1) Enumeration of Vibrio, (2) Dust concentration (AOT), and (3) Temperature and Salinity  measurements.\
In order to reproduce the work from this project, one needs to follow  these two steps:\
(1) Clone this repo containing the data and code 
(2) Open and run the code found in the `wrangling_code` folder for the respective data set of interest. 
(3) Open and run the code found in the `analysis_code` folder for the respective data set of interest. \
\

The `wrangling_code` folder contains:\
- `dust_conc_processing.qmd`: Cleans up dust data from NRL 
- `total_copies_calculator.qmd`: Cleans up qPCR outputs to produce copies per mL for enumeration
\
The `analysis_code` folder contains:\
- `daily.qmd`: Looks at Vibrio enumeration over daily time series
- `dust.qmd`:Examines dust AOT across daily time series
- `dust_and_copies.qmd`: Combines dust AOT data with Vibrio enumeration
- `env_par.qmd`: Examines Temperature and Salinity across time series
